Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `game&#95;graveyard&#95;zone` table

Contains informations about zones connected to world's graveyards.

This table set if character die in zone ghost&#95;zone and graveyard with id accept his team (HORDE or ALIANCE or both) and this is nearest graveyard then character's ghost will be teleported to graveyard id.

For a list of all existing graveyard zones and their respective IDs, check out "WorldSafeLocs.dbc":WorldSafeLocs.dbc

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"id":Game_graveyard_zone#id|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"ghost_loc":Game_graveyard_zone#ghost_zone|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"link_kind":Game_graveyard_zone#link_king|tinyint unsigned|NO||0||
|"faction":Game_graveyard_zone#faction|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||


h3. Description of the fields

h4. id

Graveyard's ID. See "WorldSafeLocs.dbc":WorldSafeLocs.dbc

h4. ghost&#95;loc

The id of a location. This is either an area/zone id or a map id based on the value of link_kind. See "AreaTable.dbc":AreaTable.dbc

h4. link&#95;kind

The kind of ghost_loc id, either GRAVEYARD_AREALINK = 0 or GRAVEYARD_MAPLINK = 1

h4. faction

Graveyard's team.

0 - Any team's accepted

469 - ALLIANCE team accepted only

67 - HORDE team accepted only

h4. Exemple for DBDevs:

To fix issue where dead player on coldridge valey are respawned to kheranos you use .gps to see what area (132) you are then you look over the "WorldSafeLocs.dbc":WorldSafeLocs.dbc to find id of the coldridge valey wich is (100).
Then the following should make you respawn correctly in that graveyard.
```sql
INSERT INTO `game_graveyard_zone` (`id`, `ghost_loc`, `link_kind`, `faction`) VALUES (100, 132, 0, 0);
```

